1.introduction
2.how to choose home workout
3.exercise videos
4.zumba
5.yoga
6.gardening and household works


It raises your heart rate and keeps it up for a while. This increases the amount of oxygen delivered to your heart and muscles. Over time, this kind of 
activity benefits your heart, your muscles, your mood and self-esteem, and your amount of energy. It can lower your blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar, body fat, 
anxiety and depression, and fatigue.
Physical activity has so many benefits to your health. It can help you get to and stay at a healthy body weight, reduce the risk of bone fractures if you have osteoporosis, 
and can reduce the risk of many other illnesses like cancer and heart disease. For most people, participating in physical activity is safe. However, some people should check 
with their health care provider or a qualified exercise professional before they start becoming more physically active.
The COVID-19 pandemic means that many of us are staying at home  and sitting down more than we usually do. It’s hard for a lot of us to do the sort of exercise we normally do. 
It’s even harder for people who don’t usually do a lot of physical exercise.
Remember - Just taking a short break from sitting, by doing 3-4 minutes of light intensity physical movement, such as walking or stretching, will help ease your muscles and improve blood circulation and muscle activity.

Tips for choosing a physical activity:
Try to choose an activity you enjoy. Suggestions include:

-Choose an indoor activity if you are bothered by weather extremes such as heat or cold.
-Enjoyment is the key to sticking to an exercise plan. Choose an activity you enjoy, not one you think is ‘good for you’.
-Think back. Did you enjoy a particular physical activity as a child, such as craft or yoga ? If so, give that activity another go.
-Be realistic about your current health and level of fitness. If you aready have experience in that, no problem. If not start from the scratch.



House and garden work:

Sweeping, vacuuming, and mopping floors
Washing the car with vigorous effort
Sweeping the garage, sidewalk, or patio
Washing the dog
Mowing or raking the lawn
Digging in the garden

Exercise is any bodily activity that enhances or maintains physical fitness and overall health and wellness

How to:
Choose your workout — Cardio, strength training or a mixture of both
Choose 10 different exercises — For cardio, focus on exercises with different levels of intensity. For example, you might alternate a high-intensity exercise (such as jumping jacks or burpees) with an easier move (such as marching in place). 
For strength training, choose pushes, pulls, front-of-leg, back-of-leg, and core movements, such as squats, lunges, pushups, and dips. Exercise ideas: Step by Step Cardio Exercises, Step by Step Bodyweight Exercises

Choose the length of each exercise — Beginners might start with 10-30 seconds or 8-16 reps, while intermediate or advanced exercisers might go for 60-90 seconds or 20 or more reps

Get Ready — Set up a timer or use a stopwatch, turn on some music or your favorite TV show and start with a warm-up

The Workout — Do 1 circuit if you're a beginner or short on time. Do 2-5 circuits for a more intense workout

Exercise Videos
For variety, convenience, and more structured home exercise, you can't beat exercise videos. There are workouts for every age, gender, goal and interest, and you can workout anytime you like in the privacy of your own home. The best thing about 
exercise videos: There are thousands upon thousands to choose from, so almost anyone can find a video they like.

The worst thing about exercise videos: There are thousands upon thousands to choose from, making the search for the perfect video an overwhelming process.

Though you can find exercise videos almost anywhere videos or fitness equipment are sold, you'll find some of the best videos are only sold online.

Home workout: 
Providing you are prepared to put a little time and effort into your workout at home, it can be just as effective as a gym workout.It all depends on the individual, 
.However, in this kind of situation we cannot go to the gym. But we have to maintain our health by doing some exrecises.The only way is to workout at 
home.Theres lots of videos related to home workout in the web, you can choose the best and start working out.


Zumba can Help you Lose Weight
If you are looking to lose weight or get fit, Zumba can help with that. Not only does it make you sweat and lose water weight, it changes your Core Body Temperature which means that your body will burn fat regularly for days after you have your exercise. 
It also means your metabolism can be sped up and therefore you will burn more calories than usual.
Since Zumba is so much fun it means your are more likely to stick to your exercise routine. Just make sure your have the right equipment and a clear space to dance around.


yoga:
It’s time to roll out your yoga mat and discover the combination of physical and mental exercises that for thousands of years have hooked yoga practitioners around the globe. The beauty of yoga is that you don’t have to be a yogi or yogini to reap the benefits. 
Whether you are young or old, overweight or fit, yoga has the power to calm the mind and strengthen the body. Theres lots of videos available in the internet, you can choose the best one and start doing it.