Cold weather and snow CANNOT kill the CoronaVirus .
The coronavirus CAN be transmitted in areas with hot and humid climates.
The coronavirus CANNOT be transmitted through mosquito bites.
There is NO evidence that companion animals/pets such as dogs or cats can transmit the coronavirus.
Taking a hot bath DOES NOT prevent the coronavirus
Hand dryers are NOT effective in killing the coronavirus.
Ultraviolet light SHOULD NOT be used for sterilization and can cause skin irritation.
Thermal scanners CAN detect if people have a fever but CANNOT detect whether or not someone has the coronavirus.
Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body WILL NOT kill viruses that have already entered your body.
Vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine, DO NOT provide protection against the coronavirus.
There is NO evidence that regularly rinsing the nose with saline has protected people from infection with the coronavirus.
Garlic is healthy but there is NO evidence from the current outbreak that eating garlic has protected people from the coronavirus.
Antibiotics DO NOT work against viruses, antibiotics only work against bacteria.
To date, there is NO specific medicine recommended to prevent or treat the coronavirus.

Chances are you've heard about a food, drug or other method that claims to prevent, treat or cure coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). 
But while it might be tempting to use a questionable product or method to stay healthy during the pandemic, it's extremely unlikely to 
work and might cause serious harm.
There is a lot of flase information around.People of all ages CAN be infected by the coronavirus. Older people, and people with pre-existing 
medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease) appear to be more vulnerable to becoming severely ill with the virus.

 
There are steps you can take reduce your risk of infection. When possible, get a COVID-19 vaccine. If you’re fully vaccinated, you can 
return to doing activities you might not have been able to do because of the pandemic, including not wearing a mask or social distancing 
in any setting — except where required by a rule or law.

myth is something that is spread across people without any actual proofs .A myth is either a belief that is widely thought
to be true, but isn't.It is also known as runours.