rgb(20,52,142,1)
ABOUT US

"Name of the site" is a site that gives information about corona virus,about vaccination,symptoms,how to stay physically and mentally good,
precautions to be taken against the virus,myth busters,when and how to use masks,travel advice.Our vision is to create awarness among the 
people about the deadly corona virus.We create positive thoughts in peoples mind and show that we the mankind would stay united and we will
defeat this virus.

CORONAVIRUS

Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus.

Most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without requiring special treatment.  Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and cancer are more likely to develop serious illness.

The best way to prevent and slow down transmission is to be well informed about the COVID-19 virus, the disease it causes and how it spreads. Protect yourself and others from infection by washing your hands or using an alcohol based rub frequently and not touching your face. 

The COVID-19 virus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes, so it’s important that you also practice respiratory etiquette (for example, by coughing into a flexed elbow)

PREVENTION

To prevent infection and to slow transmission of COVID-19, do the following:

Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or clean them with alcohol-based hand rub.
Maintain at least 1 metre distance between you and people coughing or sneezing.
Avoid touching your face.
Cover your mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing.
Stay home if you feel unwell.
Refrain from smoking and other activities that weaken the lungs.
Practice physical distancing by avoiding unnecessary travel and staying away from large groups of people.

SYMPTOMS

COVID-19 affects different people in different ways. Most infected people will develop mild to moderate illness and recover without hospitalization.

Most common symptoms:

fever.
dry cough.
tiredness.
Less common symptoms:

aches and pains.
sore throat.
diarrhoea.
conjunctivitis.
headache.
loss of taste or smell.
a rash on skin, or discolouration of fingers or toes.
Serious symptoms:

difficulty breathing or shortness of breath.
chest pain or pressure.
loss of speech or movement.
Seek immediate medical attention if you have serious symptoms.  Always call before visiting your doctor or health facility. 

People with mild symptoms who are otherwise healthy should manage their symptoms at home. 

On average it takes 5–6 days from when someone is infected with the virus for symptoms to show, however it can take up to 14 days

Should I wear mask to protect myself
Only wear a mask if you are ill with COVID-19 symptoms (especially
coughing) or looking after someone who may have COVID-19.
Disposable face mask can only be used once. If you are not ill or
looking after someone who is ill then you are wasting a mask. There is
a world-wide shortage of masks, so We urge people to use masks
wisely.
We advises rational use of medical masks to avoid unnecessary
wastage of precious resources and mis-use of masks The most
effective ways to protect yourself and others against COVID-19 are to
frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow
or tissue and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter (3 feet) from
people who are coughing or sneezing.