1. Time Management Definition:
“Time management” is the process of organizing and planning how to divide your time between specific activities. 
Good time management enables you to work smarter – not harder – so that you get more done in less time, even when 
time is tight and pressures are high. Failing to manage your time damages your effectiveness and causes stress.
It seems that there is never enough time in the day. But, since we all get the same 24 hours, why is it that some 
people achieve so much more with their time than others? The answer lies in good time management.
Due to this pandemic time, we've got lots of time to spend. So try to use it in a meaningful way.


2. How to do time management? 

Make a To-do list every day, prioritizing the most important tasks at the top. 
Create a daily schedule—include time to exercise, study, sleep, eat—even if you 
do not have any synchronous classes to attend virtually. Creating structure to 
your day can help you stay on track and be productive.
Pay attention to when and where you need to be as classes, meetings, and other obligations may be a 
mixture of virtual and in person AND these may change from week to week! Write it down!
Schedule breaks from screens (i.e., computers/laptops, cellphones, TVs, etc.)
If you have back-to-back virtual classes try to take a couple of minutes to stand-up, stretch, grab a snack, 
and use the restroom.

3.Time Management during Lock Down:

The lockdown imposed as part of the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, has also led to the closure of many offices, 
schools, businesses and most are being run through virtual platforms. With the line between the professional, academic 
and personal spaces blurring, most are finding it difficult to manage the deadlines, online lectures, household chores, 
and attending to family needs. Due to the lack of face to face conversations, discussions, many are finding it miserable 
to work, resulting to lower productivity.

The lockdown has also caused the employees to work from home, becoming a new normal for most of the employees. Working 
from home saves time and accords choices for working conditions. At the same time this is a difficult to professional and 
personal while working remotely. Some of the steps that one could take to manage time effectively are:

-Find an exclusive and workspace: Avoid the places that are usually used for relaxation for the purpose of working. The 
workspace must let one to concentrate and feel comfortable.

-Set routines and timetables:  It is essential to form a habit and mindset of working/ studying. This is possible with 
the help of a timetable, by prioritizing the activities and organizing the tasks which needs to be got done over the course of the day.

-Stay away from distractions: Staying away from the things that are unnecessary which might grab the attention are important while 
working from home. All sources of distractions must be removed from the workspace.

-Plan the day: The day must include the activities like, rest, breaks, exercise, socialize with friends, family, others with the 
help of virtual platforms along with the work. Planning helps to pass all the works quickly and effectively.

-Schedule the rest breaks: This will help one to make it their day to day routines and recharge oneself to keep on achieving the goals. 
It will also help to maintain an effective work life balance.

-Maintain a calendar: This will help to keep the track of daily activities. Setting an alarm for each activities would help to avoid 
spending more time than the allotted time for each activity.

-Avoid Multi-tasking: Multi- tasking consumes more amount of time for each assignments, since it takes time to get familiarized with 
each assignments, finding the spot and remember what needs to done next, and would make mistakes and remember less which is caused 
due to the tiring of brain.

-Maintain a positive attitude: This should be done by focusing on here and now. This will motivate one to keep moving forward in 
their day to day lives. 

Thus, it is very important for people to maintain a positive attitude and hope during this period. Since, there are chances for 
people getting panicked, anxious while thinking about the pending works, and the uncertainties happening around the world. Therefore, 
one must strive to keep themselves organized, predictable and clean. Setting up mental zones like, not having food on the bed, work 
on the sofa, while doing everything in the appropriate time, place will enable one to work smoothly. 

4.Activities that you’ll be glad you did when it all gets back to normal:

For many, this lockdown period has given us more time on our hands than we’ve ever had. Time which we never thought we would have.
This free time presents us with opportunities to do things which we’ve always wanted to do or like to do more of depending on our 
individual circumstances. I think it makes sense for us to be productive with this time and do things that are meaningful to us.

1. READ THAT BOOK (SERIES) YOU’VE BEEN PUTTING OFF
2. WATCH A DOCUMENTARY SERIES ON NETFLIX
3. KEEP A BLOG/JOURNAL
4. ENROL ON A FREE COURSE
5. LEARN A NEW SKILL
6. SET UP A WORKOUT ROUTINE
7. COMPLETE A DAILY PUZZLE
8. MEDITATE
9. KEEP IN TOUCH WITH FAMILY, FRIENDS AND PAST COLLEAGUES
10. ATTEND TO THE GARDEN
11. START A DIY PROJECT
12. GET ARTISTIC
13.  LEARN A NEW LANGUAGE
14. FORM A ROUTINE FOR YOUR NEW ACTIVITIES
15. REVIEW OR CREATE YOUR PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN