1.What is meant by good parenting?

Being a good parent means you need to teach your child the moral in what is right and what is wrong. Setting limits and being 
consistent are the keys to good discipline. Be kind and firm when enforcing those rules. Focus on the reason behind the child’s behavior. 
And make it an opportunity to learn for the future, rather than to punish for the past.
Fear, uncertainty, and being holed up at home more to slow the spread of COVID-19​ can make it tough for families to keep a sense of calm. 
But it's important to help children feel safe, keep healthy routines, manage their emotions and behavior and build resilience.

2.Address children's fears
-Children rely on their parents for safety, both physical and emotional. Reassure your children that you are there for them and 
that your family will get through this together.

-Answer questions about the pandemic simply & honestly. Talk with children about any frightening news​ they hear. It is OK to say 
people are getting sick, but remind them that following safety steps like hand washing , wearing cloth face coverings, and staying 
home more will help your family stay healthy.

-Recognize your child's feelings. Calmly say, for example, “I can see that you are upset because you can't have a sleepover with your 
friends right now." Guiding questions can help older children and teens work through issues. (“I know it is disappointing not to be able to 
do some of the things you did before the pandemic. What are some other ways you can have fun with your friends?")

-Keep in touch with loved ones. Children may also worry about a grandparent who is living alone or a relative or friend with an increased risk 
of getting COVID-19. When safe, physically distanced visits aren't possible, video chats can help ease their anxiety.

-Model how to manage feelings. Talk through how you are managing your own feelings. (“I am worried about Grandma since I can't go visit her. I 
will put a reminder on my phone to call her in the morning and the afternoon until it is safe to see her.")

-Tell your child before you leave the house for work or essential errands. In a calm and reassuring voice, tell them where you are going, how 
long you will be gone, when you will return, and that you are taking steps to stay safe.

-Look forward. Tell them that scientists are working hard to figure out how to help people who get sick, how to prevent it, and that things will get better.

-Offer extra hugs and say “I love you" more often.

3.Keep healthy routines
During the pandemic, it is more important than ever to maintain bedtime and other routines. They create a sense of order to the day that offers reassurance 
in a very uncertain time. All children, including teens, benefit from routines that are predictable yet flexible enough to meet individual needs.

-Structure the day. With the usual routines thrown off, establish new daily schedules. Break up schoolwork when possible. Older children and teens can help 
with schedules, but they should follow a general order, such as:

=wake-up routines, getting dressed, breakfast and some active play in the morning, followed by quiet play and snack to transition into schoolwork.

=lunch, chores, exercise, some online social time with friends, and then homework in the afternoon.

=family time & reading​ before bed.

4.Spending Special Time with Children
Even with everyone home together 24/7, set aside some special time with each child. Ideas can include cooking or reading​ together, for example, or 
playing a favorite game. You choo​se the time, and let your child choose the activity. Just 10 or 20 minutes of your undivided attention, even if only 
once every few days, will mean a lot to your child. Keep cell phones off or on silent so you don't get distracted.​

5.Remember
Reach out to your pediatrician with any concerns you have about your child's behavioral or emotional well-being and managing your family's stress


​

