[heading]1.COVID-19: These Top 5 Bad Habits Can Put Your Health At Major Risk of Infection

Amidst all the chaos that has ensued, what with working from home, often running out of essential commodities be it food 
or medicine and having to keep kids at home occupied all day long, one should keep in mind that bolstered immunity and 
uplifted health are of utmost importance, to stay disease-free and safeguard the wellness of family members.

Displaying symptoms of cough, cold, sore throat, fever and breathing difficulties, it is quite natural to assume that 
coronavirus disease affects only the lungs and other parts in the upper respiratory tract. But this is far from the truth. 
The SARS-CoV-2 virus exhibits lethal pathogenic traits, causing severe infection not only in the lungs but also the failure 
of other key organs in the body, such as the liver, kidneys, heart and even the brain.

And certain negative influences and addictive habits, like drinking and smoking, could make these central bodily organs 
highly vulnerable to coronavirus infection. So now is as good a time as any, to start following your new year resolutions, 
in case you've conveniently transferred them to next year's list, of giving up certain unhealthy practices and improving 
your overall well-being. Read on, to understand how addictions affect your system and why it is crucial to quit these bad 
habits, in order to lead a fit and healthy life.

2. Customary Fixations To Stop Right Away, To Avert The Risk Of COVID-19:

Smoking Tobacco

Inhaling smoke emanating from cigarettes regularly damages the tubular tissues in the lungs, frequently resulting in 
breathing trouble, emphysema, cancer and other pulmonary disorders. In addition, the nicotine present in tobacco negatively 
influences neurotransmitter levels of serotonin and dopamine, giving rise to uncontrolled fluctuations in mood and memory.

Consuming Alcohol

Alcoholic beverages when consumed occasionally, may not cause any sickness but an addiction to alcohol affects the liver 
as the body is unable to process the chemicals. This leads to the build-up of harmful toxins and fats in the liver, causing 
severe conditions like cirrhosis, alcoholic liver disease and even liver failure.

Improper Diet

Eating junk foods high on sugar, processed compounds, oil and salt is one of the main reasons behind the onset of chronic 
diseases like diabetes, heart disease, obesity and hypertension. These conditions further weaken the immune system, making 
the person inclined to contract seasonal bacterial as well as grave viral infections, with the recovery process also taking 
longer than in a healthy individual.

High Caffeine Intake

For many, taking four to five cups of coffee a day is just plain routine. However, the caffeine content in coffee beans 
and powder being significantly high, this is a very dangerous trend. Caffeine gets quickly absorbed into the bloodstream 
and can result in numerous health complications like insomnia, high blood pressure, elevated risk of heart attacks and 
even kidney failure.

Venturing Outdoors

This may sound like a harmless leisure activity on a regular summer evening, but in present times of lockdown, stepping 
out of one's home casually is not encouraged, unless to buy groceries or take a walk. Not only will local law enforcement 
officials heavily penalise people visiting nearby landmarks and taking bike rides, but this greatly increases the risk of 
COVID-19 for the individual as well as their family members.

A Post-Pandemic Mentality

Be kind to yourself. Many are struggling to navigate a completely new situation with unique stressors. 

We are all adapting the best way we know how, but be gentle with the expectations you place on yourself. If you compare 
yourself to your previous metric of productively and purpose, you’re likely to fall short. The ways you normally feel 
productive and happy may not apply right now, and that’s okay.

You are enough if you’ve brought joy to those around you (in whatever small ways you can), taken care of your mental 
well-being, and done a small favor for your physical health. 

COVID-19 brings with it many new worries, but life will go on, and so must we.